Job Description
Works in the area of Software Engineering, which encompasses the development, maintenance and optimization of software solutions/applications.
1. Applies scientific methods to analyse and solve software engineering problems.
2. He/she is responsible for the development and application of software engineering practice and knowledge, in research, design, development and maintenance.
3. His/her work requires the exercise of original thought and judgement and the ability to supervise the technical and administrative work of other software engineers.
4. The software engineer builds skills and expertise of his/her software engineering discipline to reach standard software engineer skills expectations for the applicable role, as defined in Professional Communities.
5. The software engineer collaborates and acts as team player with other software engineers and stakeholders.

Works in the area of Software Engineering, which encompasses the development, maintenance and optimization of software solutions/applications. 1. Applies scientific methods to analyse and solve software engineering problems. 2. He/she is responsible for the development and application of software engineering practice and knowledge, in research, design, development and maintenance. 3. His/her work requires the exercise of original thought and judgement and the ability to supervise the technical and administrative work of other software engineers. 4. The software engineer builds skills and expertise of his/her software engineering discipline to reach standard software engineer skills expectations for the applicable role, as defined in Professional Communities. 5. The software engineer collaborates and acts as team player with other software engineers and stakeholders.
Job Description - Grade Specific
Is fully competent in it's own area and has a deep understanding of related programming concepts software design and software development principles. Works autonomously with minimal supervision. Able to act as a key contributor in a complex environment, lead the activities of a team for software design and software development. Acts proactively to understand internal/external client needs and offers advice even when not asked. Able to assess and adapt to project issues, formulate innovative solutions, work under pressure and drive team to succeed against its technical and commercial goals. Aware of profitability needs and may manage costs for specific project/work area. Explains difficult concepts to a variety of audiences to ensure meaning is understood. Motivates other team members and creates informal networks with key contacts outside own area.
Skills (competencies)
Verbal Communication
